War in Ukraine company blog (#155)
readthedocs/blog: 2022-war-in-ukraine.rst

.. post:: March 4, 2022
   :author: David
   :location: SAN

War in Ukraine and what it means for Read the Docs
==================================================

At Read the Docs, we are outraged and saddened by the invasion of Ukraine
and we condemn this act of violence as wrong and unlawful.
We are monitoring the situation in Europe
and how it relates to our employees, customers, and our services to the open source world.

Read the Docs is a very small company with only seven employees
and fortunately none of them are currently in harm's way.

> Our impact, however, on the open source ecosystem is bigger than our size
> and we have users all over the world including in Ukraine and Russia.

Reviewer: A little nicer flow and some `,`

```suggestion
Our impact on the open source ecosystem, however, is bigger than our size,
and we have users all over the world, including in Ukraine and Russia.
```

> Sanctions

Author: ```suggestion
Impact on our services
```

I think this improves this subhead. Sanctions is perhaps too forward.

---------

We are continuing to monitor the situation with respect to sanctions.
Read the Docs is hosted and incorporated in the United States
and we may be compelled to take action.

We aim to be a platform for all developers
and we do not intend to prevent users from specific countries from using our platform
especially as it relates to open source work.

Read the Docs is currently partially blocked in Russia by the Russian government.
While we are working to resolve this,
it does not appear that this block is related to war in Ukraine.

What we are doing and what you can do
-------------------------------------

As the situation develops, we will be transparent about any actions we take.
We take our role of helping the open source community with documentation seriously
and we aim to be a platform for all developers.

Over the coming days, our advertising arm `EthicalAds <https://ethicalads.io>`_
will be running a series of community ads aimed at raising money
for the `United Nations Crisis Relief Fund <https://crisisrelief.un.org/>`_
and other missions aimed at humanitarian aid for Ukraine.
If you can donate to help provide humanitarian aid, please do.

> At Read the Docs, we are hoping that peace is restored as quickly as possible.

Reviewer: The lead in sounded authoritative (?). Or something. I really like the sentiment as an outro though.

```suggestion
We are hoping that peace is restored as quickly as possible.
```

Feels like its missing a clause still though

> .. post:: March 4, 2022

Author: ```suggestion
.. post:: March 7, 2022
```

   :author: David
   :location: SAN

War in Ukraine and what it means for Read the Docs
==================================================

With news surrounding the invasion of Ukraine evolving rapidly,
we felt it was necessary to provide an update to our users and customers.

At Read the Docs, we are outraged and saddened by the invasion of Ukraine
and we condemn this act of violence as wrong and unlawful.
We are monitoring the situation in Europe
and how it relates to our employees, customers, and our services to the open source world.

Read the Docs is a very small company, with only seven employees,
and fortunately none of them are currently in harm's way.
Our impact on the open source ecosystem, however, is bigger than our size,
and we have users all over the world, including in Ukraine and Russia.

> Impact on our services
> ---------

Author: ```suggestion
Impact on our services
----------------------
```

We are continuing to monitor news that could potentially affect our users,
including sanctions applied to the region.

At this moment, users in Russia and Belarus are likely affected by financial sanctions,
and subscription payments from these countries may be declined.
These transactions are impacted by both sanctions targeting banks in the region

> as well as credit card processing limitations.

Author: I do question whether this paragraph is entirely needed. We do almost no business in those countries. That's why I didn't even mention this previously.

Reviewer 2: This also kind of leaves an unanswered question.. Are we going to cancel those users services for non-payment? Or some other course of action? I'd agree we should remove it if we don't have a policy ready to mention.

Read the Docs is currently partially blocked in Russia by the Russian government.
While we are working to resolve this,
it does not appear that this block is related to war in Ukraine.

> Other than the government blocking and financial sanctions, our services are not impacted.

Author: ```suggestion
Other than the government blocking and potential financial sanctions, our services are not impacted.
```

> Other than the government blocking and financial sanctions, our services are not impacted.

Reviewer: Slight tweak to what I just proposed. Financial sanctions are not potential, but affects of sanctions are the unknown for us.

```suggestion
Other than this government block and potential affects from financial sanctions, our services are not impacted.
```

> Other than the government blocking and financial sanctions, our services are not otherwise impacted.

Reviewer: Flow is better, but had a small edit

```suggestion
Other than the government blocking and financial sanctions, our services are not impacted.
```

> Our documentation services are otherwise not currently affected however.
> Read the Docs is hosted and incorporated in the United States,
> and so any further changes to US sanctions could apply to our services.
> 
> Read the Docs is currently partially blocked in Russia by the Russian government.
> While we are working to resolve this,
> it does not appear that this block is related to war in Ukraine.

Reviewer 2: Attempting to make these 2 paragraphs make a bit more sense. 

```suggestion
Read the Docs is currently partially blocked in Russia by the Russian government.
While we are working to resolve this,
it does not appear that this block is related to war in Ukraine.

Other than the government blocking and financial sanctions, our services are not otherwise impacted.
Read the Docs is hosted and incorporated in the United States,
and so any further changes to US sanctions would apply to our services.
```
